This directory contains code written to clean up human-listener labelled data used in this study. 

There are three optional executable files (with the additional prefix `Optl`) that don’t need to be executed. Clean-up processes in these scripts target the `Infant Voc Type` and `Adult Utterance Direction` tiers (see comments in the individual files for more details), since these are the relevant tiers for the paper in question. However, the code provided here can be adapted to more comprehensively clean up other tiers.

The first of these optional scripts, `A0_OBSOLETE_Eaf0225_000602QuickFix.R`, was intended to quickly edit systematic textual errors in `0225_000602.eaf`. This script was written during the first round of the `.eaf` file clean-up process, and these files have gone through multiple rounds of clean-up (both using the pipeline provided here, as well as with a graduate student co-author manually cleaning up flagged issues). As such, this optional script is now obsolete. 

The second optional script (also obsolete now), `A0_OBSOLETE_Optl_FlagFileswIncorrectAudioFile.R` goes through `.eaf` files to identify any `.eaf` annotation file that was originally opened with and annotated with respect to an incorrect audio file. This issue was flagged in July 2024; as of that time, only `0776_000613.eaf` has this issue, and this file has since been excluded from all subsequent analyses. 

The last optional script, `A1Optl_GetUniqueTierNames.m` extracts the set of unique tier names cumulatively present in the set of human-listener annotation files (`.eaf` files). This is to identify incorrect tier names (eg. `Adult Utt Dir` instead of `Adult Utterance Direction`). The output of this script is the list of unique tier names displayed in the console, and only serves easy visual parsing. 

Data required to execute the scripts in this directory contain potentially identifying information. As such, access to this data is restricted, and the provided code is intended to orient the reader. For details on output files for each executable script (and which of those output files are shared publicly) as well as data organisation, see `Metadata_CodeAndFiles.xlsx` and `README_FileAndDirectoryDetails.docx` (available in the main repository as well as in the associated OSF repository).

`A1_ParseEafFilesAndFlagErrors.R` parses annotation details and relevant line numbers from each `.eaf` file into a corresponding `.csv` file (the `AndFlagErrors` is a relic of the naming from when I first started writing this script. However, now, the error-flagging occurs in the next script.). This script is set up so that it can be executed on `.eaf` files before and after each round of data clean-up and generate output files with appropriate file names and/or in appropriate directories. Requires `EafParsingFunctions.R`. 

`A2_GetErrorSummaryFromCsvFiles.m` flags errors in the `.csv` files parsed from `.eaf` files and outputs different types of errors as separate `.csv` files. This script is also set up to be able to be executed pre- and post-clean-up and generate appropriately named output files. Requires `GetAnnotInOrthoButNotInUttDir.m`, `GetAnnotOutsideCodingSheetBds.m`, `GetMismatchedTierAndIncorrectAnnotations.m`, and `GetRogueInfOrAdultAnnotsInOtherTiers.m`.

`A3_GetEditedEafFiles.R` edits `.eaf` files with errors (that are systematic and can be edited without further human-listener intervention; see relevant code for more details) based on outputs from `A2_GetErrorSummaryFromCsvFiles.m` and saves the edited `.eaf` files. Requires `EafSimpleErrorEditingFunctions.`, `EafDeleteAnnotsOutsideCodingSheetBounds_Functions.`, `EafTierNameEditingFunctions.R`.

At this point of running the clean-up pipeline, all errors in the `.eaf` files that require a trained human-listener to listen to audio and make corrections to annotations, should be addressed. Running these scripts to this point would complete one round of (non-human listener) data clean-up. 

Executing `A1_ParseEafFilesAndFlagErrors.R` on the cleaned-up `.eaf` files (by indicating the post-clean up status of files in the script; note that clean-up is assumed to include both automated clean-up using code in this folder as well as manual clean-up by human listeners where applicable, unless otherwise specified) will generate `.csv` files based on the cleaned-up human-listener labelled files, on which further pre-processing (using code in the folder `A3_HUMLabelDataProcessing`) is carried out. As a check-and-balance step, I also recommend running `A2_GetErrorSummaryFromCsvFiles.m` on the cleaned-up set of `.eaf` files, so that any additional errors that may have crept up can be addressed. 

For more specific details, please read comments about paths and other notes in the files before executing them.

