This directory contains all analysis code for results reported in the Burstiness paper.

`A1_RemoveAcoustics_Merge0Ivis.m` removes acoustics information from data used in these analyses (since we do not perform acoustics analyses in this work; however, the acoustics data is part of the data processing pipeline and is used in associated, ongoing work) and merges vocalisations of the same speaker label type separated by 0 s IEIs. Requires `MergeZeroIviVocsAndGetTSOnlyTab.m`.

`A2_1_CtsOfMergedUnmatchedAnnots.m` computes the total number of instances where during the 0 s IEI merging, vocalisations with different annotation labels but the same speaker label were merged. This only applies to human listener-labelled data, is intended to only provide this information, and does not affect the analyses presented. 

`A2_ComputeCurrPrevStSizeTab.m` generates tables with current and previous IEI data as well as response data (for response windows 0.5s to 10s) for all datasets analysed in the study. Each current IEI-previous IEI pair is also identified by infant ID and infant age. Requires `ComputeResponseVector.m`, `GetStepSizeTab_IviOnly.m`, `GetTabForLmer_CurrPrevStSize_IviOnly.m`, and `Get_CurrPrevStepSizeTab_IviOnly.m`.

`A3_LmerResponseBetas_w_OptlPrevStSiCtrl.R` uses `.csv` files generated by `A2_ComputeCurrPrevStSizeTab.m` to perform linear mixed effects analyses testing the effect of response reciept on the following IEI after controlling for the positive correlation between consecutive IEIs, for infant and adult vocalisers, and for all datasets presented in the study. This script also performs the response analyses without the previous IEI control so that results may be compared against the controlled version. See the Burstiness paper for details. Requires `GetLmerCoeffsForResponseBetas_w_OptlPrevStSizeCtrl.R`.

`A4_GetDataToPlotAnalysesStepsDataViz.R` performs the previous IEI control step at the recording level on all analysed data to get recording level residuals from the previous IEI control (i.e., for each daylong recording for the LENA day-long data, and for each validation data file for the validation data). The resulting data is used for plotting and visualisation purposes as needed. Requires `GetPrevStCtrlResids_RecLvl.R`.

`A5_LmerAgeEffectsOnPrevStSizeAndResponseBetas.R` performs age effects analyses on recording level previous IEI betas, as well as response betas with and without the previous IEI control for all datasets presented in the study. Requires `GetLmerCoeffsForAgeEffects.R`.

`A6_GetAgeLvlPrevIviLmerBetasResidualsTransformedIvis_Lday.R` performs the previous IEI control step at the age-block level (3, 6, 9, and 18 months) for the LENA daylong data to generate residual IEIs as well as previous IEI betas and intercepts for the regression. The generated data is used for visualisation and used in Fig. 1 in the Burstiness paper as well as associated supplementary figures. 

For more specific details, please read comments about paths and other notes in the files before executing them.

